# pay-nginx-proxy

Proxy for GOV.UK Pay.

We run the nginx proxy inside a Fargate container for all of our apps.

## Fargate deployment

To update and deploy a new nginx-proxy container:

- Raise a pull request, get an approval and merge it.
- The [Github Actions post-merge workflow](https://github.com/alphagov/pay-nginx-proxy/blob/master/.github/workflows/post-merge.yml) will test a build of the image from the main branch and create a release tag. 
- The [Concourse `deploy-to-test` pipeline](https://pay-cd.deploy.payments.service.gov.uk/teams/pay-dev/pipelines/deploy-to-test?group=nginx-proxy) is triggered by the release tag.
It will build the Docker image, tag it as `*-release` and push it to the AWS test account's ECR repository (for historical reasons, the image is called 'docker-nginx-proxy' in ECR).
- Concourse will then attempt to deploy Toolbox with the new `*-release` nginx-proxy container. If successful,
  the `*-release` image will be pushed to the AWS staging account's ECR repository.
- The [Concourse `deploy-to-staging` pipeline](https://pay-cd.deploy.payments.service.gov.uk/teams/pay-deploy/pipelines/deploy-to-staging?group=nginx-proxy) 
will then deploy Toolbox to the staging environment. If successful, the `*-release` image will be pushed to the AWS staging account's ECR repository. push to the AWS production account's repository.
- The [Concourse `deploy-to-production` pipeline](https://pay-cd.deploy.payments.service.gov.uk/teams/pay-deploy/pipelines/deploy-to-production?group=nginx-proxy) 
will deploy Toolbox with the new `*-release` nginx-proxy container.

Note that once the image is pushed to ECR, all other apps that use the nginx sidecar will
pick up the latest version when they are deployed to that environment. To prevent this, pin the previous nginx release version in Concourse.

## Usage

### Environment Variables

#### Multi-location Variables

Variables to control how to configure the proxy (can be set per location, see
[Using Multiple Locations](#using-multiple-locations)).

* `PROXY_SERVICE_HOST` - The upstream host you want this service to proxy.
* `PROXY_SERVICE_PORT` - The port of the upstream host you want this service to proxy.
* `NAXSI_RULES_URL_CSV` - A CSV of [Naxsi](https://github.com/nbs-system/naxsi) URL's of files to download and use.
(Files must end in .rules to be loaded)
* `NAXSI_RULES_MD5_CSV` - A CSV of md5 hashes for the files specified above
* `NAXSI_USE_DEFAULT_RULES` - If set to "FALSE" will delete the default rules file.
* `UUID_VARIABLE_NAME` - The name of the variable used to set `$uuid` which is in turn used to populate the `X-Request-Id` header sent to proxied services. Default is `$request_id` which is automatically generated by [ngx_http_core_module](http://nginx.org/en/docs/http/ngx_http_core_module.html). Another option is `$http_x_request_id` which would represent the `X-Request-ID` header from the incoming request.
* `REQS_PER_SEC` - Will limit requests e.g. set to 1 to allow one request per second.
* `REQS_PER_PAGE` - Will limit requests to 'bursts' of x requests at a time before terminating (will default to 20)
* `RATE_LIMIT_DELAY` - The number of requests to process without delay within the burst setting e.g. `delay=10` (default off, can also be set to `nodelay`)
* `RATE_LIMIT_ZONE_KEY` - The key used to apply rate limiting (default `binary_remote_addr` will apply the configured rate limit by user IP)

#### Single set Variables

Note the following variables can only be set once:

* `ADD_NGINX_SERVER_CFG` - Arbitrary extra NGINX configuration to be added to the server context, see
[Arbitrary Config](#arbitrary-config)
* `AWS_REGION` - Sets the AWS region this container is running in. Used to construct urls from which to download resources from. Defaults to 'eu-west-1' if not set.
* `ENABLE_BIG_BUFFERS` - Set higher predefined proxy buffer limits. Useful if you're getting errors related to "upstream headers being too big".
* `LOCATIONS_CSV` - Set to a list of locations that are to be independently proxied, see the example
[Using Multiple Locations](#using-multiple-locations). Note, if this isn't set, `/` will be used as the default
location.
* `CLIENT_MAX_BODY_SIZE` - Can set a larger upload than Nginx defaults in MB.
* `CLIENT_BODY_BUFFER_SIZE` - Can set a larger body buffer size than Nginx defaults in MB.
* `HTTP_LISTEN_PORT` - Change the default inside the container from 10080.
* `HTTPS_LISTEN_PORT` - Change the default inside the container from 10443.
* `ERROR_LOG_LEVEL` - The log level to use for nginx's `error_log` directive (default: 'error')
* `PROXY_STATIC_CACHING` - Enables static asset caching at the webserver level. Set to 'true' to enable.
* `REAL_IP_HEADER` - The header containing the forwarded client ip e.g. `X-Forwarded-For`
* `REAL_IP_FROM` - The IP or CIDR from which to trust IPs set in REAL_IP_HEADER

### Ports

This container exposes

* `10080` - HTTP
* `10443` - HTTPS

N.B. see HTTP(S)_LISTEN_PORT above

### Useful File Locations

* `nginx.conf` is stored at `/etc/nginx/conf/nginx.conf`
* `/etc/keys/crt` & `/etc/keys/key` - A certificate can be mounted here to make nginx use it. However a self
  signed one is provided if they have not been mounted.
* `/etc/nginx/conf/naxsi/*.conf` - [Naxsi](https://github.com/nbs-system/naxsi) rules location in default
nginx.conf.
* `/etc/nginx/html/$CODE.shtml` - HTML (with SSI support) displayed when a the status code $CODE
is encountered upstream and the proxy is configured to intercept.
* `/etc/nginx/html/418-request-denied.shtml` - HTML (with SSI support) displayed when NAXSI
blocks a request.

### Examples

#### Using Multiple Locations

When the LOCATIONS_CSV option is set, multiple locations can be proxied. The settings for each proxy location can be
controlled with the use of any [Multi-location Variables](#multi-location-variables) by suffixing the variable name with
 both a number, and the '_' character, as listed in the LOCATIONS_CSV variable.

##### Two servers

The example below configures a simple proxy with two locations '/' (location 1) and '/api' (location 2):

```shell
docker run -e 'PROXY_SERVICE_HOST_1=http://stackexchange.com' \
           -e 'PROXY_SERVICE_PORT_1=80' \
           -e 'PROXY_SERVICE_HOST_2=https://api.svc.cluster.local' \
           -e 'PROXY_SERVICE_PORT_2=8888' \
           -e 'LOCATIONS_CSV=/,/api' \
           -p 8443:443 \
           quay.io/ukhomeofficedigital/nginx-proxy:v1.0.0
```

For more detail, see the [generated config](./docs/GeneratedConfigs.md#two-separate-proxied-servers).

##### One Server, Multiple locations

The example below will proxy the same address for two locations but will run
with rate-limiting configuration or the /about location only.

See the [generated config](./docs/GeneratedConfigs.md#same-server-proxied) for below:

```shell
docker run -e 'PROXY_SERVICE_HOST=http://stackexchange.com' \
           -e 'PROXY_SERVICE_PORT=80' \
           -e 'LOCATIONS_CSV=/,/about' \
           -e 'REQS_PER_PAGE_2=5' \
           -p 8443:443 \
           quay.io/ukhomeofficedigital/nginx-proxy:v1.0.0
```

#### Arbitrary Config

The example below will return "404" for the URL /notfound.
```shell
docker run -e 'PROXY_SERVICE_HOST=http://stackexchange.com' \
           -e 'PROXY_SERVICE_PORT=80' \
           -e 'ADD_NGINX_SERVER_CFG=location /notfound { return 404; };' \
           -p 8443:443 \
           quay.io/ukhomeofficedigital/nginx-proxy:v1.0.0
```

## Testing
The proxy is tested using a handful of the scenarios listed above with a 
mock server instance in a Docker Compose stack and is currently executed by a 
Github Actions Workflow.

View the `.github/workflows` and `tests/` directories for more info.

## Built With

* [Nginx](https://www.nginx.com/resources/wiki/) - The proxy server core software.
* [Naxsi](https://github.com/nbs-system/naxsi) - NAXSI is an open-source, high performance, low
  rules maintenance WAF for NGINX

## Find Us

* [GitHub](https://github.com/UKHomeOffice/docker-nginx-proxy)
* [Quay.io](https://quay.io/repository/ukhomeofficedigital/nginx-proxy)

## Contributing

Feel free to submit pull requests and issues. If it's a particularly large PR, you may wish to
discuss it in an issue first.

Please note that this project is released with a [Contributor Code of Conduct](code_of_conduct.md).
By participating in this project you agree to abide by its terms.

## Versioning

We use [SemVer](http://semver.org/) for the version tags available See the tags on this repository.

## Authors

* **Lewis Marshal** - *Initial work* - [lewismarshall](https://github.com/lewismarshall)

See also the list of
[contributors](https://github.com/UKHomeOffice/docker-nginx-proxy/graphs/contributors) who
participated in this project.

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE.md](LICENSE.md) file for details
